The Joe Rogan experience. Here's a question. The war in Europe,
all the countries involved. Yeah. What was the,
what was the size of the landscape we're looking at in con in like relationship
to the United States? When you look at France and Germany and England, like,
what is that like?
Well, it wasn't just Paul Poland, Germany. Oh.
Yeah. But I'm talking about Russia.
It was Russia, I think is five time zones.
Right. Russia's giant. Russia is a different animal, right. Because Russia's,
um, you know, that's Asia. Yeah. And Russia.
Russia would just rely on old general winter.
But, but European aspect of it, the European part of, uh,
world war I and two I'm how much, what I was thinking is like,
it's almost like having a war inside America, right? Yeah. I mean, it's really.
Close. I think, I think if you look at, uh, if you, if you take, uh, France,
Spain, uh, Italy, you know, Germany, Poland,
all those areas, they fit in Rhode Island, Hungary, Austria. Yeah. All those,
you know, Bulgaria, Romania, you'll go slop. Those in Florida.
Will tough those in.
Florida. How, how big is that area?
I'm on the give one minute. He's got too much. That's a lot of Googling.
I found, I found a thing that like world war, I map 40 maps that explain.
World war I, so world, world ones, a different thing too. Yeah. World.
I was, that's what you're talking about, right though. World one world,
world war two. I want two is the whole world. Yeah. Two is everything right.
But so.
Is world war. I remember world war I, the Ottoman empire was crumbling. Right?
So Turkey's empire was crumbling. So Turkey got the middle east involved.
The British were, were, were, you know, were involved in the middle east.
They were fighting the Turks. That, that whole area became, uh, theater for war.
Dude. I'm on, I'm on my third wild west book in the last couple weeks.
Really? Yeah. Yeah. Uh, about the history of the wild west.
Lemme tell you this one, it's a blood and thunder. Yeah. Um,
blood and thunder. An epic tale of the American west.
It's about kit Carson and the mountain men. Yeah. Bro. Rough.
Dudes.
Bro. Men. Just the, the,
the wars with all the various tribes and the chaos and the,
the way they would kill people. Oh my God. It's so crazy.
The, the native Americans had oh yeah.
Brutal dude. One of these stories that I was reading, uh,
I don't think it was this one. It was, uh, it wasn't the kid Carson one. It was,
um, the, uh, the one on, um,
general Custer general was the last one, which was, um, son in the morning star.
That was the last one that I was reading. Beau. Yeah. This one, the one guy,
one, a native American guy wants to this other guy's wife. So he, uh,
he tries to get him. He can't get him. Eventually finds him one day, kills him,
eats his heart, cooks his heart comes back and tells everybody.
Then marries the lady.
Well, you gotta eat a man's heart. Cuz you impose his will on. Imagine.
You're married. Joke. A guy married. You're a woman.
You're married to a guy and this other dude wants to you.
He kills your husband and eats his heart. Yeah.
And then you say getting this TPE big boy.
That's, that's pretty gangster.
That's pretty good because the guy loved you and I'm.
Gonna eat his heart. I'm gonna eat his love for you. He cut.
He cut two fingers off of his hand because he couldn't get to her.
And he loved her so much. And he was angry that he, he couldn't kill her.
Now did he win her over? Well, he must have won her over.
He cut two fingers off his hand before he got to her.
And then foul the guy after he cut two fingers off his and killed the guy. Yeah.
Ate his heart cooked. It came back. Told everybody like ate most of the heart.
Yeah. That's a stalker. That's a, that's a, that's a oh yeah. Stage five.
Stalker. Is that, does that go back past that's yeah.
Past.
Made his heart.
Ate his heart. You remember like when we used to have those, uh,
terrorism color today. Yellow. No worries. Yeah. Remember it was a flag. Yeah.
That's.
It. That's a flag.
This is it. Battle front of Europe. Yeah.
This was from 1917 and a paper in London made this. This is explaining uh,
interesting. The battle area. Battle.
Zones. Yeah. Oh, so all it fit in the center of the country. Right.
And they compared it even. Yeah. God dude.
Just imagine if that was going on in the center of the country.
If Montana was at war with Wyoming and Colorado.
<Laugh> it was all, it was all trench warfare too. Oh my God. See,
world war is really interesting because there are some parallels now, world war.
I, if you look at world war, I, it was a time when,
first of all, the world hadn't been Europe,
hadn't been the war for a hundred years.
So when people went into war in world war, I, they were, I mean,
they went in every young man volunteered and even women volunteered
to be nurses and to cook. And so it was this,
they were singing songs and they were gonna be gone for two weeks and it was
gonna be really exciting and it was romantic and,
and no one in co polluting,
the soldiers really understood the technology like machine
guns and, and that kind of technology and mustard gas.
And they didn't know they were still fighting the way they had
been fighting for millennia, which was on horseback feathers,
in their helmets and charging with great braver.
And so what happened was they would charge and the other side would open up with
machine guns and sh and artillery, and then ultimately poison gas.
And so the numbers are too staggering to even imagine,
but like for 800 yards to, you know,
to try to capture that money land or whatever they would lose,
they lost something like 300,000 men in a day. I mean, that's what was going on.
They were just getting owed down. Not that many. Oh dude, the numbers are crazy.
The battle of the Psalm. I can't remember what it was.
It was beyond like the number of men that were lost per foot.
I remember I had to ask three times cause I couldn't believe it.
And because they were just the, so your,
your arrogant commanders would blow a whistle.
Sometimes they would kick a soccer ball and you would follow the soccer ball
over the ditch and run as they were shooting at you,
Uhhuh <affirmative> and you'd. And if you didn't, you'd be tried for cowardice.
Sometimes you'd be shot by your commanding officer in the back of your head.
Cuz remember a lot of these armies were conscripted.
They were brought in against their will from, you know,
this was the time of imperialism when the country that was bigger and stronger,
the, a Hungarian empire, Austria itself would come in and say, you belong to us.
Now there were these secret alliances that would happen. And,
and so that battle was so insane and they, it was just,
it was a true meat grinder. It was a true meat grinder.
And then you'd have no man's land, right? So you'd have no man's land.
And that was the area where they would, they would come in. They, you know,
they had to cross to kill and men you'd hear them dying. Oh and groaning,
but nobody could get to them. It was the, it was the worst man.
It was the worst. And in those trenches, the, the body parts and everything.
And then, then people would have to go to bathroom there.
And then the rain would come. You were living in a gutter.
It was beyond what people can imagine. It was beyond,
it was the most horrific thing.
And the only thing that was worse was something called world war II,
which is essentially a continuation of that first European
civil war. And uh, and I don't know, man, it's,
it's beyond what we can we're so less than a hundred years time like that. Yes,
sir. Less than.
A hundred years ago, sir. Years inside of one person's lifetime. Yeah. 1945.
Ari Ari's dad is a Holocaust survivor. Yeah. You go a Shakir's dad.
Yeah. Is a Holocaust survivor. Mm-hmm <affirmative>, you know, I mean,
that's how close.
It is.
And that all came from this idea back then that you could perfect society and
perfect human beings.
You know, six inch hows are. Yeah. That's human.
Beings. You know where, where this is, where the idea of, uh,
where ideas can be so dangerous, this idea that human beings are,
are a blank slate and they'll that you can make them anything you want.
You can reeducate them in a camp and they'll be what you want.
This is the history of, of Europe and, and those ideas lost ground.
That's why the individual it's so important for the individual to take
precedence over the state. This is also.
Why it's so important for people to be able to express themselves.
That's what I mean. And for people to, you know.
But fidelity to the state in a fascist society in, in,
in communi rush fidelity to the state,
the collective must be superior to the individual,
the individual, you're a tiny leaf on a tree. If you have a society like that,
somebody's gonna run that. Somebody's gonna set that doctrine and they,
and they will justify killing 20, 30 million people to.
Way install it. They say they're doing it for the country. Sure. Yeah. You know,
there's, there's so many patterns like that,
that just repeat themselves over and over again, with human beings and power,
you get.
You know, Hitler, um,
by many accounts seem to genuinely enjoy world war.
He enjoyed it. And then he got blinded by mustard glass,
and he couldn't believe Germany, surrendered. He couldn't believe it.
And a German physician,
there's one record of the German physician saying characterizing Hitlers follows
again. This is from Buckholt, uh, lectures. It said, um, <laugh> he goes,
this person is not fit to command humans
and is a, and is dangerously psychotic.
And because of a lot of crazy reasons, he was able to start the,
or join the Nazi that he's worked in. He actually started as,
um, a mind for the German army. What's a mind.
So a guy who sped on, uh, subversive groups. Oh,
okay. Oh, like a rat. Yeah. Rational a revolutionary groups.
That's how he came across the nationalist socialist partner,
national on socialist party. Yeah. Then nuts now the Nazis and uh,
but kind of went, you know what I like what these guys are saying. Yeah.
So he joined. Yes. I want.